# simple-uuid
Extremely Simple UUID Generator

## Concept

The worlds simplest and smallest random* UUID generator:
* Dependency Free
* Runs and builds easily on all platforms
* No caveats
* Not the fastest

There are certainly UUID generation methods that are more 'industrial strength' and are therefore faster, but I found none that were header-only with no dependencies beyond the standard library.

There may also be better algorithms in regard to randomness, but this does utilize `std::mt19937` from standard library in C++11, and in quite random and nondeterministic. It's random enough that measuring it's randomness is fairly difficult, because the number of times this must be invoked before a collision occurs is more likely than not to be more than UINT64_MAX. 

The randomness of UUIDs generated by this method should be totally acceptable for 99% of purposes. If you need something more random, perhaps look at  https://github.com/mariusbancila/stduuid. This has many more dependencies, however.

## Randomness

RESULTS FROM MOST RECENT TESTS

Randomness Calculation - Because each character of the 32-character UUID has one of 62 possilbe values, the chance of a UUID collision should be `(1/62)^32`, or 4.4e-58, or 1:2.2 Octodecillion or "one in two trillion trillion trillion trillion billion"

of course we know random numbers in computer aren't truly random, therefore theres a test blah blah blah.

## Requires

C++ 11 standard

## Usage

Simply include uuid.h.

Call SimpleUUID::generateUUID()

## Testing

I'd recommend a new directory for CMAKE to build the test application.

```
mkdir test
cd test
cmake ..
cmake --build . --config Release
```

Run the tester `SIMPLE_UUID_TESTER` this will generate a whole set of UUIDs and then keep generating UUIDs until it collides with one of the starter set. This shows the "worst case" of UUID collision.

If you want more data run with the `-complete` flag, which will keep generating UUIDs and timing their collision forever. You will see a running tally of "average collision time" which will eventually
stop climbing (perhaps after days) and provide you with the average time to a collision. (Plus generation rate. You can work out average UUIDs tested before collision, but it's certainly
a very large number, far beyond what uint64 would represent.)

The current figures are based on 16 hours of testing.

## Future developments

* UUID combination could be implemented
* Performance and randomness could be improved